---
title: Requirements for Self-hosted Deployments
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /requirements-self-hosted-deployments
tags:
  - free
  - team
  - business
  - enterprise
---

:::note

Applicable to customers on any plan.

:::

These Requirements for Self-Hosted Deployments (“**Requirements**”) apply to customers who host the Services on their own infrastructure (“**Self-Hosted Services**”) and are supplemental to, and form part of, the Agreement between Retool, Inc. (“**Retool**”) and Customer. "**Agreement**" means the [Retool Master Subscription Agreement](https://docs.retool.com/legal/master-subscription-agreement) or other written agreement between Retool and Customer, as specified in the Customer's then-current Order Form, that governs Customer's use of the Services.

Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in these Requirements will have the meanings given to them in the Agreement.

## A. Requirements for Self-Hosted Services (Customer-Managed Deployments)

### 1. Network requirements

Customer must comply with all virtual machine, network, and other requirements specified in the [Documentation](https://docs.retool.com/self-hosted/) for the Self-Hosted Services.

### 2. License Verification

Customer will (i) permit Retool to verify Customer’s compliance with the authorized scope of use for the Self-Hosted Services set forth in the current Order Form; or (ii) upon Retool’s request, provide written verification to Retool that demonstrates such compliance. Such written verification will be in the form of a report generated by the Self-Hosted Services or other form that is reasonably necessary for Retool to verify Customer’s compliance. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Order Form, if Customer has exceeded its authorized scope of use for the Self-Hosted Services and, upon Retool’s request, does not use good-faith efforts to resolve or address such excess use with Retool, Retool may invoice Customer the fees applicable to such use. Customer will pay any amounts invoiced by Retool under this section in accordance with the payment terms in the Agreement.

## B. Requirements for Self-Hosted Services (Retool-Managed Deployments)

_Only applicable if Customer’s then-current Order Form includes a subscription for a “Self-Hosted – Retool-Managed Deployment.”_

### 1. Definitions.

- “**Retool-Managed Deployment Services**” means Retool’s offering for deploying the Services in the Customer Cloud Account, including provisioning the Services Infrastructure and maintaining and monitoring the Services Infrastructure through the Runner VM.
- “**Customer Cloud Account**” means Customer’s account with Amazon Web Services, or any other cloud hosting provider approved by Retool in the applicable Documentation, that is dedicated for the Services.
- “**Runner VM**” means the Retool-managed automation tooling, deployed in the Customer Cloud Account, that communicates with Retool’s control plane to perform limited automated operational tasks with respect to the Services Infrastructure. 
- “**Services Infrastructure**” means the Retool-managed components of the infrastructure, as set forth in the applicable Documentation, that are required to support operation of the Services and have been configured by Retool based on Customer’s instructions. For the purposes of these Requirements, the term “Services Infrastructure” will exclude the Services.

### 2. Documentation.

**2.1** Documentation for the Retool-Managed Deployment Services is available at https://docs.retool.com/self-hosted/retool-managed/.

### 3. Customer Responsibilities.

**3.1** In order for Retool to provide the Retool-Managed Deployment Services, Customer must (A) at its sole cost and expense, create and maintain a Customer Cloud Account during the term of the applicable Order Form and (B) provide information reasonably requested by Retool in a timely manner. Customer will follow all other set-up requirements and instructions provided in the applicable Documentation or communicated by Retool (including via email). Retool will not be responsible for any delays or interruptions in Customer’s use of the Services to the extent caused by Customer’s failure or delay in meeting the requirements in this section.

**3.2** Customer acknowledges and agrees that the Retool-Managed Deployment Services require a division of roles and responsibilities, as described in the applicable Documentation. Customer will not, nor will it permit an Authorized User or any third party to, modify, delete, or interfere with the Services Infrastructure or the Runner VM. Retool will not be responsible for any performance or functionality issues that result from Customer, an Authorized User, or any third party’s modification, deletion, or interference with the Services Infrastructure or Runner VM.

**3.3** Customer is solely responsible for (i) implementing and maintaining industry standard controls and measures to secure access, and prevent unauthorized access to, the Customer Cloud Account; (ii) the handling of encryption keys managed by Customer for the Retool-managed deployment; and (iii) ensuring that Retool does not have access to resources, Databases, and Customer Data if access is not necessary for Retool to provide the Retool-Managed Deployment Services.

### 4. Retool Responsibilities.

**4.1** Subject to Customer’s compliance with these Requirements and the Agreement, Retool will perform the Retool-Managed Deployment Services, during the term of the then-current Order Form and in accordance with the applicable Documentation. Retool’s obligations and responsibilities with respect to the Services are set forth in the Agreement.

### 5. License Verification.

**5.1** Customer will (i) permit Retool to verify Customer’s compliance with the authorized scope of use for the Services deployed in the Customer Cloud Account as set forth in the current Order Form; or (ii) upon Retool’s request, provide written verification to Retool that demonstrates such compliance. Such written verification will be in the form of a report generated by the Services or other form that is reasonably necessary for Retool to verify Customer’s compliance. Unless otherwise specified in the then-current Order Form, if Customer has exceeded its authorized scope of use for the Services and, upon Retool’s request, does not use good-faith efforts to resolve or address such excess use with Retool, Retool may invoice Customer the fees applicable to such use. Customer will pay any amounts invoiced by Retool under this section in accordance with the payment terms in the Agreement.

### 6. Usage Information.

**6.1** Retool may collect and use Usage Information as permitted under the Agreement.

### 7. Termination.

**7.1** If Customer’s subscription to the Retool-Managed Deployment Services under the applicable Order Form terminates or expires and Customer has not executed a new Order Form to continue using the Services under a different deployment model, Retool may limit, suspend, or terminate Customer’s ability to access and use the Services as deployed in the Customer Cloud Account.

**7.2** If Customer’s subscription to the Retool-Managed Deployment Services under the then-current Order Form terminates or expires, but Customer has executed a new Order Form to immediately continue using the Services under a different deployment model, Customer will comply with instructions provided by Retool to facilitate the migration of the Services to the new deployment model agreed upon by the parties in the Order Form. 

